README.md, before:

# Murmelbahn

**NOTE**: This app is in no way affiliated with Ravensburger, it is not an official app.
Please do not contact Ravensburger if you have issues. Open an issue or discussion in this repository instead.

This app can be used to download Gravitrax courses and see information about them, if you know the codes used in the app.

There is a CLI, which is incomplete (and might be removed in the future) and a Web App, which is currently deployed at: https://murmelbahn.fly.dev

At the moment, only two endpoints are supported, and you need to call them manually by editing the URL:

- Dump: https://murmelbahn.fly.dev/course/GDZJZA3J3T/dump
- Bill of Material (BOM): https://murmelbahn.fly.dev/course/GDZJZA3J3T/bom
  - This one takes a query parameter called`format` with values of `csv`, `rust` or `json` (the default)
  - `csv` output is compatible with the GraviSheet

## Acknowledgements

- Thank you very much [Chris Fuchser](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCk8bK1u_oH2LIGb_PLP7E9g) for all your help in understanding Gravitrax and testing this program

Commit message:

Change README and include ImHex schema

README.md, after:

# Murmelbahn

**NOTE**: This app is in no way affiliated with Ravensburger, it is not an official app.
Please do not contact Ravensburger if you have issues. Open an issue or discussion in this repository instead.

This app can be used to download Gravitrax courses and see information about them, if you know the codes used in the app.

There is a CLI, which is incomplete (and might be removed in the future) and a Web App, which is currently deployed at: https://murmelbahn.fly.dev

Some URLs that are supported:

- Dump: https://murmelbahn.fly.dev/course/GDZJZA3J3T/dump
- Bill of Material (BOM): https://murmelbahn.fly.dev/course/GDZJZA3J3T/bom
  - This one takes a query parameter called`format` with values of `csv`, `rust` or `json` (the default)
  - `csv` output is compatible with the GraviSheet
                   
## Course format

I used the [ImHex](https://github.com/WerWolv/ImHex) editor to reverse engineer the data format.
I did include the schema so you can look at files yourself if you like.
It can be found in the file `imhex-schema.txt` in this repository.
Ravensburger changed the file format multiple times.
This app can only process the latest two formats (anything after 2020, the introduction of "Pro").
Earlier versions could - in theory - be supported but I didn't find many tracks with those formats out there with the exception of courses between 2019 and 2020, I might add support for this later.

## Acknowledgements

- Thank you very much [Chris Fuchser](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCk8bK1u_oH2LIGb_PLP7E9g) for all your help in understanding Gravitrax and testing this program
- [WerWolv](https://github.com/WerWolv/ImHex) for the fantastic ImHex editor. That was a fun week to play around with!
